CarDroid Client

Transport is the sector which originates the largest energy consumption in Spain, having the car as the most used means of transportation. Waste of free seats due to the low occupancy of vehicles has a considerable and unnecesary environmental and economic cost as one of its main consequences. The sharing of car journeys, known as carpooling, is a practice which counts on a growings upport, since it diminishes the counter-productive effects resulting from using a private vehicle, both in daily and steady routes as in high-distance occasional routes.
The boom of the Internet hastened carpooling's expansion, which has even risen since the smartphones first appear and popularization, due to the various web platforms and applications destined to the most popular mobile operating systems and social networks, which have greatly made accessible such a practice, bringing it coloser to a wide range of population.
The point of the present Final Degree Project is the development of a platform which will allow its users to contact each other in order to share a vehicle in their trips, getting benefit from every advantage carpooling brings with it. After carrying out a study about the already existing commercial platforms intended to this activity, focusing on their main strengths and shortages, a platform which combines their positive characteristics as it makes up for their lack of coverage will be developed. Furthermore, it will include new functional features which would turn out for its users, thus showing greater flexibility and operational ability than those of its potential competitors and enabling the platform to develop to go one step beyond them as it comes to the user.
As a compromise of quality, the design of the architecture resulting from the platform's development will lie on top of five basic principles: scalability, throughput, integrity, concurrency control, and usability, as far as these can be applied.
The crafting of a system which supports all the expected functionalities at the same time it fulfills the aforementioned principles will take place as the result of the integration of various technologies, techniques, and mechanisms.
In the end, an application intended to devices running the Android operating system will be developed, which while acting as a platform's client will enable the user to interact with it in an easy way and make the best of its potential.

This is the client of CarDroid, which was born in the University of Castilla-La Mancha in the form of an Android application as one of the main objectives of the Final Degree Project "CarDroid, support for carpooling on mobile devices".

